There's a railroad sign that most of us have seen when we before we cross a railroad track. It says
stop
look and
listen and some will say and live
Now why is this sign there?
Because we know that crossing a railroad track can endanger our lives
But the danger is not so evident. It's not immediately seen
It must be deduced must use your thinking abilities and that's why one sign says
See tracks think train
So we first must stop and
Then look both ways and then even engage the sense of hearing to listen
Do we hear a rumble of vibration in the earth?
Do we see a
Headlight coming our way a whistle blowing
You see all these indicate a danger
That the train is not in front of us immediately
but
We have to be aware of the danger because as this picture shows a fast moving train
Just cannot stop immediately if we happen to be in the middle of the railroad tracks
If we were there, we definitely would be killed
To avoid such a tragedy
We therefore must use what the Bible calls our perceptive powers
to discern the danger that is before us and
Then we must take a appropriate action to find safety to make sure that we are not victimized by the danger
Now this well illustrates what Jehovah has been telling us through his word and through his organization
Jehovah is telling us today to stop
look and
listen
Look around you
discern the times that we're living it. We're living in the last days
The end is very near the great tribulation is about to take place
Now it's necessary to have discernment in order to come to this conclusion
Jesus said it was you would need discernment at Luke 17 verses 20 and 21
He says that the kingdom would not be coming with striking observableness
It would take discernment to understand the signs and what would mean and what action to take
This ability to discern it requires cultivation
We need to work on it. The Bible at Hebrews 5 verse 14
It calls it the the powers of discernment or what we used to call the perceptive powers and
As we learned in yesterday's text it referred to the prophet Daniel now he was exemplary in
Using his perceptive powers to perceive or to discern the will of God and it was necessary for him to do so
In order to avoid the dangerous situation that he and his
Companions were in being there in the palace at Babylon
Now Daniel continued to cultivate these powers of
discernment later on in his life
He made a deep study of the prophecies
Especially those of Jeremiah and then he concluded or discerned where they were in the stream of time that the end of the
70-year desolation of Jerusalem was coming to its conclusion and
This moved him to take specific action to prepare himself as well as other faithful Jews
So that they could proceed which a hois will in purpose
He therefore understood the times and events that were taking place
Because of the deep study that he did and he was able to discern
What was taking place in a road around him?
Now Jesus taught us to do something very similar
He told us to cultivate
discernment and he used a beautiful illustration to do that open your Bibles, please to the book of Luke and
We'll look at chapter 21 and
verses 29 through 31 and here at Jesus uses this technique of a stop look and listen and live
He says in verse 29
He says notice the fig tree and all the other trees so stop
and look around you he says in verse 31 it says and when they are budding and in other words look at these plants and
You see it for yourselves and know that the summer is near so discern it
Proceed what is taking place here and then he tells us and listen in verse 31
Likewise also you when you see the things happening know that the kingdom of God is near
So here Jesus was telling us to stop look listen and then
We would live
Now the faithful and discrete slave they're they're guided by the head of the congregation
Jesus Christ and he is providing direction to us in a very similar way
To help us sharpen our powers of discernment to comprehend and understand what's going on around us
It's through the pages of the watch tower and our assemblies and conventions
Here we are told to stop leave off your everyday life and concerns and
stop for a moment and then
Look into God's word
Read it
See what the Bible has to say about Jehovah's will and purpose and especially our time period and then take time to listen
To the explanations provided through the faithful and discrete slave
About prophecies and about our time period and the nearness of the great tribulation
Now today we are receiving a very clear message
From Jehovah God's organization through Jesus Christ and through the faithful and discrete slave that the great
Tribulation is imminent
Now how should this information affect us?
Well for one thing the anxieties of life the things that immediately confront us on a day-to-day basis
That can sap our energy it can totally can distract us away from the bigger
Issues and Jesus warned us against this and if I'm going back to the book of Luke chapter 17
There Jesus uses the accounts of Noah as well as Sodom and Gomorrah to prove it to be a warning to us
There he says that the days of the Son of Man would be like Noah and Sodom and why because people would be
Distracted with the mundane cares of life
It's these mundane cares of life that can truly dull our powers of perception
We would not be able to discern where we are in the stream of time or the danger that is confronting us
So we have to really be careful that we don't allow these things to dollar a discern powers of discernment
Otherwise we could find ourselves as wandering on to a railroad track and not really looking not listening
Being distracted and before you know it a train would overtake us and that's exactly what is happening to people in the world today
They're distracted by these things and they're failing to take notice that Jehovah God is coming at them at full speed
To execute judgment against Satan's wicked world
However when we sharpen our powers of discernment we clearly see the signs and Jesus said that that you would he said it looked
1724 that it would be like lightning flashing from one end of the sky to the other end of the sky
But it would be only because our powers of discernment with see these things and understand them
Now we see very clearly we look around on the political world today and we can see these lightning flashes all around us Daniel's vision of the
Chapter two the iron and a clay of the final world power and we see how fragmented they are how weak and ineffectual this world government is
Second Timothy three one to five the the attitudes of people including those who are leaders in the world are
arrogant and blasphemous and hotty
And these are clear indications that we are very near the time of the end in fact these
Individuables these governments are very much like an illustration that we saw in the October 15th
1971 issue the watch tower of a little ant standing on a railroad track
And here we see God's kingdom coming at them and
We obviously see what the outcome will be
They will be completely
pulverized by the power and speed of Jehovah's
Executional forces
So we see therefore it's important for us to have
sharpen our powers of discernment to cultivate this quality so that we are not caught off guard that we always see the danger and can take
appropriate action
So every day let us stop look and listen to Jehovah's warnings
This will help us stay out of the danger zone and we'll be able to survive the end of the system of things and the great
Tribulation will not catch us off guard